Add Harness Notifications integration (#2596)
DataDog/integrations-extras: harness_harness_notifications/README.md

# Harness Notifications

## Overview

> Harness is a self-service CI/CD platform that allows engineers and DevOps to build, test, deploy, and verify software, on-demand. With this integration, you can seamlessly send Harness pipeline event notifications to Datadog, ensuring real-time visibility into critical pipeline updates within your existing monitoring workflows. These notifications are available in the Datadog [Events Explorer][1] and are surfaced in the included dashboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Harness is a self-service CI/CD platform that allows engineers and DevOps to build, test, deploy, and verify software, on-demand. With this integration, you can seamlessly send Harness pipeline event notifications to Datadog, ensuring real-time visibility into critical pipeline updates within your existing monitoring workflows. These notifications are available in the Datadog [Events Explorer][1] and are shown in the out-of-the-box dashboard.
```

> **Note**: The ability to configure Datadog notifications in Harness is currently behind a feature flag. Please contact [Harness Support][2] to enable this feature. Visit [Harness docs][3] to learn more about this integration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note**: The ability to configure Datadog notifications in Harness is behind a feature flag. Contact [Harness Support][2] to enable this feature. See the [Harness documentation][3] to learn more about this integration.
```

## Setup

After the integration is installed, these events are tagged with `source:harness_notifications`.

### Configure Datadog pipeline notifications in Harness

> 1. In Harness Pipeline studio, click on **Notify** on the right sidebar.
> 2. Click the **+ Notifications** button to create a new channel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In Harness Pipeline studio, click **Notify** on the right sidebar.
2. Click **+ Notifications** to create a new channel.
```

3. Provide a name for your Datadog notification channel.
4. Select the Pipeline Events you want to monitor.
5. Under Notification Method, select **Datadog(/v1/events API)** as the Channel Type.

> 6. Enter your Datadog URL, which should be followed by `/api/v1/events` (e.g., `https://app.datadoghq.com/api/v1/events/`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Enter your Datadog URL, which should be followed by `/api/v1/events` (for example, `https://app.datadoghq.com/api/v1/events/`)
```

7. Enter your [Datadog API key][4].
8. (Optional) Add headers if needed.
9. Test the configuration and click **Finish**.

## Uninstallation

> Notification channels can be enabled/disabled or deleted from the Notifications page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Notification channels can be enabled, disabled, or deleted from the Notifications page.
```

> -   To enable/disable, toggle the **Enabled** switch

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   To enable or disable notification channels, toggle the **Enabled** switch.
```

> -   To delete, select **:** for more options, then click **Delete**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   To delete, select **:** for more options, then click **Delete**.
```

# Harness Notifications

## Overview

The Datadog Notifications in Harness allows you to send pipeline event notifications directly to your Datadog monitoring system using the [Events API (v1)][1]. This integration helps you keep track of important pipeline updates within your existing monitoring workflows. [Learn more][2]

Please note, currently, the Datadog notifications feature is behind the feature flag `PIPE_DATADOG_NOTIFICATIONS`. Please, contact [Harness Support][3] to enable this feature in Harness.

## Setup

The **Harness Notifications** integration allows you to send pipeline event notifications directly to the Events Explorer in Datadog. Once installed, these events will be tagged with `source:harness_notifications`

## [Configure Datadog pipeline notifications in Harness][4]

> 1. In Harness Pipeline studio, click on Notify on the right sidebar.
> 2. Click on `+ Notifications` button to create a new channel.
> 2. Give a name to your Datadog notification channel.
> 2. Select Pipeline Events as per your requirements.
> 3. Select Channel type as `Datadog(/v1/events API)` in Notification Method.
>     ![datadog-selection][5]
> 
> 4. Provide the Datadog URL and API key.: Please provide the Datadog URL followed by `/api/v1/events` eg. `https://app.datadoghq.com/api/v1/events/`
>     ![datadog-API-and-URL][6]
> 
> 5. (Optional) Add headers if needed.
> 6. Test and complete the setup.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. In Harness Pipeline studio, click on Notify in the right sidebar.
2. Click the `+ Notifications` button to create a new channel.
3. Provide a name for your Datadog notification channel.
4. Select the Pipeline Events you want to monitor.
5. Under Notification Method , select `Datadog(/v1/events API)` as the Channel Type.
    ![datadog-selection][5]

6. Enter your Datadog URL, which should be followed by `/api/v1/events` (e.g., `https://app.datadoghq.com/api/v1/events/`)
    ![datadog-API-and-URL][6]

7. Enter your [Datadog API key](https://docs.datadoghq.com/account_management/api-app-keys/)
8. (Optional) Add headers if needed.
9. Test the configuration and click **Finish**.
```

Reviewer 2: For step 6, is there a reason you're requesting the entire url and not just the Datadog site?

For details, check Datadog's documentation on [Events API (v1)][1].

## Uninstallation

> ## [Disable notification rule][8]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### [Disable notification rule][8]
```

Reviewer: Same as before, I don't think the link in the header will work.

> Once you've created notification rules, you can enable/disable them in the Notifications page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can enable or disable notification channels from the Notifications page.
```

Reviewer 2: Is there an option to delete the notification rule entirely? If so, please add the instructions to do so.

> ![](https://developer.harness.io/assets/images/notify-users-of-pipeline-events-11-e5c8b04889195bd974ef6ab87aacc9a3.png)

Reviewer 2: Do you have a screenshot showing a Datadog notification disabled?

## Support

Need help? Contact [Harness support][9].

[1]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/api/latest/events/
[2]: https://developer.harness.io/docs/continuous-delivery/x-platform-cd-features/cd-steps/notify-users-of-pipeline-events/#datadog-notifications
[3]: mailto:support@harness.io

> [4]: https://developer.harness.io/docs/continuous-delivery/x-platform-cd-features/cd-steps/notify-users-of-pipeline-events/#configuration "Direct link to Configuration"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[4]: https://developer.harness.io/docs/continuous-delivery/x-platform-cd-features/cd-steps/notify-users-of-pipeline-events/#configuration
```

[5]: https://developer.harness.io/assets/images/datadog-notification-1-b8800da49d5f75575040d229094e9c64.png
[6]: https://developer.harness.io/assets/images/datadog-api-conf-bbc150afdeb25c7693f17a6c8aa04c75.png

> [8]: https://developer.harness.io/docs/continuous-delivery/x-platform-cd-features/cd-steps/notify-users-of-pipeline-events/#enable-or-disable-notification-rules "Direct link to Enable or disable notification rules"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[8]: https://developer.harness.io/docs/continuous-delivery/x-platform-cd-features/cd-steps/notify-users-of-pipeline-events/#enable-or-disable-notification-rules
```
